---
layout: post
title: AGU, Day 2
---

##I Did Something Stupid This Morning

I gave a homeless dude a dollar.

In my defense, I didn't know he was homeless at first. He talked to me like a
(mostly) normal person before we caught the same BART train, and made small
talk on the way. Then, he said that he was worried about being short on bus
fare.  I obviously shouldn't have been suckered in by this at all. However,
if this happened in Fairbanks it would have a much greater chance of being
legit. In fact, it *did* happen to me once.  This guy, who was obviously
*not* homeless, had forgotten his wallet, and it was cold out. He was really
nice, didn't expect anything, and when I did happen to have change he thanked
me and everything. If I was suckered by *this* guy, at least it wasn't too
terrible an experience.

So, that's what I was thinking when I gave this guy the time of day.

When he started saying, "five to stay alive," any red flags that hadn't been
triggered should've gone up, but I guess I was just being slow. So, figuring
that, if he were truly short on bus fare, that a dollar would probably get him
going, I gave him a dollar.

That's when he started getting pushy. "Naw man gimme the five!"

"I don't *have* a five!" I said.  This was probably trpue. Luckily for me,
a Good Samaritan saved the day by telling the guy to piss off for me (for which
 I am really grateful).  Later, another guy informed me that I "shouldn't give
them money---It makes them bolder."

A little late. Oh well.

## I Forgot About Proprietary Attitudes in Academia Again

I had a guy remind me of this while taking pictures of his poster. Nothing bad
happened or anything---he just reminded me that he was planning to publish,
and then he explained his (pretty cool) poster to me. But, to be honest, I
*did* forget.

In a sense, I make a terrible academic. I like researching and
everything, but I always forget to take into account this sort of thing. As a
native Netizen, I have this in-built base assumption that anything being
shown to me is meant to be shared. This is very different from
academia, where the base assumption is that it's a secret between you and the
presenter. That is, the assumption is that you're peer review and are secretly
*previewing* the material so that they can be prepared to meet any common
criticisms.

For me, at least, it's weird.

Anyways: As a consequence, I'm taking down the Flickr pictures of the posters
from yesterday. Sorry!

##Posters

There were a lot of good posters today. In fact, I can't really say I had a
favorite poster (or posters) today! However, a few hilights:

1. There were a few posters on predicting the level of plate techtonics on
"Super-Earth" exoplanets. I talked to one guy that developed a heat transfer
model based on subsurface material properties to predict the nature of
subsurface convection (which drives plate techtonics) and predicted that the
likelyhood was a weak function of planet size at best. This is in contrast to
two other studies, one of which predicted a direct relationship and one which
predicted an inverse relationship. I'd be interested to see what answer wins
out.

2. According to one poster, some earthquakes are triggered by rapid changes in
the local water table! Apparently, these changes create pressure waves which can
interact with pre-stressed plates to cause earthquakes. They can be pretty
significant too, as it turns out, and the changes that can trigger them can be
caused by both natural things like hurricanes and ahtropogenic things like dams.

So, here's my question: The Susitna Dam would be in a location very close to a
major faultline. What kind of earthquakes would *that* trigger? One fellow
attendee suggested we build the dam as an experiment, to find out. :D

3. There's a crackpot poster, which I still need to get a picture of. It was
*amazing*. I'm surprised he got poster space, to be honest.

## Exhibitions/Vendors

I went and checked out the Exhibition stuff in Moscone West  today, and I got a
metric shit-ton of swag, no joke.  I have four new posters, and a bunch of
literature---some of it worthwhile, some of it not so much.  I also got to talk
to the people behind Alvin the submersible. Some of you may remember Alvin and
Jason from the Titanic expeditions (I know I read the shit out of everything
Titanic-related), but Alvin has done lots of really good science over the last
40 or so years that the program has been going. Everyone can be jealous of me
starting now. :D

There were a lot of instrumentation people there.  This, of course, made me
think of my own forays into measurements, as well as APIs for *getting* the
data. The best unit I saw had a web interface, which you could use to download
CSV logs. What *I* think would be awesome, though, is a streaming data API.
I think a lot of scientists would prefer to get their data pre-compiled, but
even if streaming data would be unpopular amongst scientists, I think people
more interested in real-time monitoring would love the streaming APIs. At least
one of the vendors agreed that it was a good idea.
