---
layout: post
title: Scipy 2010, Day 1
---

# FIRST OF ALL:

People in the lower 48 don't "get" coffee. Or, at least, lowr 48ers that aren't from Seattle. I haven't been to Seattle though.  Seriously, I've had a Hell of a time finding coffee so far, and it hasn't even been that good. I ended up adding  plain coffee and honey to my mocha for God's sake! INCORRECT

Of course, jet lag makes coffee more important. I may have woken up 7:00am Austin time, but the 3-hr time zone difference means I was waking up at 4:00am AKDT. >_<

Update: The crap I ended up replacing my mocha with is so terrible it *actually makes me angry*.

##Okay, so, Scipy.

I'm doing the advanced tutorials. Almost surprisingly, it/they seem to be a good fit so far.

###Advanced Numpy:
I learned about a lot of little things, but I think the most immediately useful things to me are:

* Fancy indexing: Use arrays to specify indices instead of slices.
* Advanced broadcasting usage: Same idea as multiplying a vector by a scalar, but applicable to all m-degree and n-degree arrays.

For an example of broadcasting, check this out (from ipython):

    In [158]: (i,j)=np.ogrid[0:3,0:3]
    
    In [159]: i+j
    Out[159]: 
    array([[0, 1, 2],
           [1, 2, 3],
           [2, 3, 4]])

    In [160]: (i,j)
    Out[160]: 
    (array([[0],
           [1],
           [2]]), array([[0, 1, 2]]))

[*ogrid*](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.ogrid.html) works a lot like [*meshgrid*](http://www.mathworks.com/access/helpdesk/help/techdoc/ref/meshgrid.html) (or [*mgrid*](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.mgrid.html) for that matter), but instead of returning "full" structures, it just gives you a single "column" in the necessary direction, such that when used as in meshgrid, broadcasting works and you only really notice less memory usage and more fasters. Really slick.

Now, for an example of Fancy Indexing: We can get the diagonal values out of i+j like this:

    In [161]: (i+j)[arange(3),arange(3)]
    Out[161]: array([0, 2, 4])

Basically, the passed arrays are broadcasted with each other to make sure they're the same size (in this case, they are), and then elements of (i+j) are extracted by-elements of the indexing arrays. Cool!

The other take-home lesson, I think, has to do with the clashing of paradigms between lists, iterables, etc. in the standard python world and the "vectorized" style of the scipy and MATLAB worlds. I mentioned earlier that I'd love to be able to extend list comprehension style to act naturally in the context of a 2-d array. In my mind, this would work something like this:

    array(f(i,j) for (i,j) in iter_ij(A))

If we use ogrid and .reshape, we can do something like this:

    array([f(i,j) for (i,j) in ogrid[0:3,0:3]]).reshape((3,3))

which is pretty crummy. Alternately, you can do basically what I did in my first example:

    (i,j)=ogrid[0:3,0:3]
    f(i,j)

where f(i,j) rolls vectorized style. I think this is probably the best you're gonna get, and while it isn't a list or a one-liner, I think it's actually pretty clean. You could probably throw some sweetener on there too so you can say something more akin to f(i,j) for i,j=1,2,3 . Not sure--Just something to think about.

This tutorial was given by [Stefan van der Walt](http://mentat.za.net/), who seems to be a pretty cool guy! I'm stalking him on github now.


* **Signal Processing in Python**:

I learned about [scipy.signal](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/signal.html), which has a lot of slick shit! I'm not really a signals guy (though I learned enough from Controls for it to make sense), but the tools are totally there for being able to do Neat Things with signals. Also worth noting is that *pylab* has [a](http://duckduckgo.com/?q=pyplot+psd) [few](http://mouseabuse.co.uk/blog/spectrogram-python) controls-specific plots.

In fact, the instructor of the tutorial is [working on some extras to make it even better.](http://python-control.sourceforge.net/), by including implementations of MATLAB's nicer tools. Definitely worth checking out!

* **Lunch**:

I'm just going to take this opportunity to say: The Austin way of saying "Guadalupe" ("Guad-a-loop") is really grating. I swear these people are tollin'. Also: [What is up with this intersection?](http://maps.google.com/maps?&ll=30.281718,-97.741798&spn=0.000427,0.00086&t=k&z=20) It looks like a two-year-old designed it. Shame on you, Texas. Shaaaaaame. Oh, and shame on you for your lack of coffee.

Other than that: I feel like I'm being a bit antisocial so far. This guy from Norway introduced himself and suggested that we "team up" for lunch-getting.  I had to go pee, and I kinda ended up ditching him on accident. I feel bad!

Oh well.
