---
layout: post
title: SciPy2010 Day 3
---

Oh geez, I hardly slept last night. Jet lag is kicking my ass. Still, I absorbed *some* stuff from this morning.

## Opening Stuff

* **Python 3** *was a big theme this year.* Numpy is weeks away from working well with 3.x, and scipy is next. Cython is also trying to make the move.

* **Matplotlib:** *Going gold?* 1.0 is coming, and trunk has a *lot* of new, really cool-looking features! It looks like it hasn't hit their front page, though. One of the features they're really proud of is a new html5 front-end. This is kinda cool, though I think I'd use a native javascript library for that sort of thing.

* Something I liked: **Cython can rock generator expressions now.**

* A lot is going on in the iPython world. According to Fernando Perez, they spent a lot of time refactoring and componentizing the codebase. They are also looking to incorporate ZeroMQ, and seem pretty excited about it.

* **Github!** Perez directly addressed the move of ipython's source control from bzr/launchpad to git and github. They were even able to transfer their "issues" to github, which is pretty rad.

* EPD's numpy version can make use of [MKL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Math_Kernel_Library), if you're into that sort of thing.

* ETS is starting to rock QT4, as an alternative to WX. Cool, cool.

## David Beazley

You *may* know him as the creator of SWIG, but what they don't tell you is that he's *REALLY FUNNY*. Here are some quotes from his talk, paraphrased:

> * Sure, I could write everything in C++
> * And I could also poke myself in the eye

>  " Back when I worked at Los Alamos, we had two enemies: The soviets, and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. "

> "Please don't reimplement CORBA ... or SOAP ... or any other overengineered solution that makes you want to quit programming and join a band. ...I already did that once."

His talk was on concurrency, and in particular on the attitudes that programmers have towards it. He called it, "DIY Concurrency." Unfortunately I don't think I could really explain where he was coming from with any justice, but his talk reminded me of my impression of ZeroMQ, in that ZMQ is less a fully-fledged solution to message-passing and more of a framework for "rolling your own."

Some technologies he talked about though, which made for Pretty Awesome Demos:

* [xmlrpclib](http://docs.python.org/library/xmlrpclib.html)
* listening with the multiprocessing module
* using the logging module to post to Twitter.

## Theano

Something Brian Granger talked about the other day was the "magic button" approach with regards to speeding up code. In a sense, I think Theano is part-way successful.

I think you can get most of the talk's content from [Theano's website](http://www.deeplearning.net/software/theano/), but it was still pretty cool having it explained to me first-hand.

## Robot Vision!

### 3-D imaging action

This technique used pictures (3 near-orthogonal ones) of an object on a table and then used an algorithm to generate a points model of the object.

The description of the algorithm made me think of vacuum-sealing. It first finds a bounding sphere, and then shifts the points inward in 3-space until the points shrink-wrap the data. Cool stuff!

### Reading lips!

Helge (the guy that suggested we team up for lunch the other day) is giving a talk on computers reading lips. Fascinating! Apparently he got the idea from watching 2001: A Space Odyssey.


