---
layout: post
title: airplanes
---

##airport

Whew, long week. I'm beat. This sucks, because I'm actually kinda excited right
now about Hacking Shit. In turn, this is kinda funny because I'm more of a
kludger than a hacker. ;)

It's funny how reliant I've gotten on the internet. Austin's airport (where I am
right now) doesn't have free wifi---just some Boingo bullshit that redirected
each and every one of my browser tabs. :( It's not that I'm necessarily addicted
to the blogoblag, though. See, I keep trying to work on some of my little
projects, and I find I need to look up some api or module in order to do
anything useful! It's definitely mildly frustrating.

On the plus side, you guys won't be flooded with my git pushes. 
Sorry about that. I really am.

I think I'm gonna try to sleep on the airplane, maybe. And then use Denver's
wifi if they have it. Man, I'll be glad to be home.

##Leg 1: "I've never felt better, Austin! </vanessa>"

This is the first time I've flown through Frontier. Their seats are nice and 
comfy, but it's bullshit that their livemap costs $6.00. It also kinda sucks.

I first got exposed to Livemap on my flight over, actually.  Delta (I like 
Delta) showed flight stats and GPS information on a map overlay during our
flight. Which was awesome! But Frontier's livemap:

* Only updates speed and altitude every minute or so.
* Intersperses everything with **obnoxious commercials**.
* Costs six dollars.

What the fuck, Frontier? Livemapping should be free and awesome. I mean, if I
had access to the airplane's data in a half-sane API, even I could make a
totally awesome app. Tsk, tsk.

In other news, I was totally able to mess with Al Sweigart's Python Gorillas.
My "sandbox" version now has sweet new colors, gorillas that flip you off, and a sun that yells,
"FUUUU-" when hit. I'm so awesome.
