---
layout: post
title: srsial vs. parallol
---

You may remember that I wrote about [parallelizing my code](http://jesusabdullah.github.com/2010/07/12/parallolism.html) well over a month ago. Funny thing about that: It's almost September and this approach never ended up yielding any Actual Results. So, here's what I did:

* Scrapped all the parallelism work by using almost-unchanged fea code from [early July](http://github.com/jesusabdullah/anisotropy/commit/00b3ada40bd8884f60036c30054293fd82f903b3).
* Used COMSOL/MATLAB in GUI mode instead of trying to run everything in the background.
* Locked up a single computer for what will probably be about ten days.

Now, it's working great. I had maybe three minor bugs, and now it's expected to run completely through by next Friday.

It's funny to think that I spun my wheels for over a month trying to do things that would least impact other users and speed up my own code's execution, when I would've been ahead to have just done what I'm doing now, as dirty as it feels.

There's probably a lesson in here about the benefits of *not* parallelizing code, or in "playing the game" as stated by whatever software you're using (that is, by not being an uncommon use case for the code). Hell, maybe there are a few. But, I don't really find any of these lessons (assuming I'm learning them) very satisfying. I guess I feel like that, if I were using a "better" base for my calculations (say, python >=2.6 numpy, sfepy, a working mesher and a half-decent model builder) that I would've been miles ahead despite the much greater initial learning curve and barriers to setting up a working system. Plus, I could've avoided the ARSCputers. I mean, I couldn't even [install Node.js on them](http://jesusabdullah.github.com/2010/08/04/node-the-supervisor.html). Hard to say.

I guess things from the last month+ aren't totally a wash production-wise.  I did figure out how to extract the apparent k-value from the temperature time-series data. We'll see what happens after I properly git everything (since I can't push to github from the ARSCputers either for some reason).
