---
layout: post
title: "MATLAB: A Require System, a MathWorks Blog Post Rebuttal, and Why I Care Anyway"
---

Apparently today is MATLAB Day for jesusabdullah.github.com! I have two (*two!*) somewhat-related MATLAB subjects to discuss. They're connected! You'll see!

**Note:** I'm using [gnu octave](http://www.gnu.org/software/octave/) in all these examples instead of MATLAB, since I don't *have* MATLAB anymore. I'm a javascript programmer, not a miracle worker! However, everything in this blog post should apply equally to octave and MATLAB.

## require.m: A module system for MATLAB, and why you need it

To be fair, I think MATLAB *technically* has a sort of module system. However, this "module system" is for java-based addons and toolboxes, and not for your average m-file.

How MATLAB allows users to manage libraries is this: You write your m-file, and put it in your current working directory. Maybe your file looks something like this:

    % plusone.m
    function ans = plusone (n)
        ans = n+1;
    end

So, to use this, you would do something like:

    [josh@pidgey ml_modules]$ ls
    plusone.m
    [josh@pidgey ml_modules]$ octave -q
    octave:1> plusone(3)
    ans =  4
    octave:2> 

In this case, plusone.m contains a function, and when you call that function name it executes. If plusone.m was a procedure, then typing the procedure name would run all the commands in the .m-file in your global namespace. Basically: Anything written in a file in your current directory is exposed to the global namespace.

Gross!

Meanwhile, other languages/environments have reasonable module systems in place. For example, in [python](http://python.org) (and *in no directory in particular*) you can do things like this:

    [josh@pidgey tmp]$ ipython
    Python 2.7.1+ (r271:86832, Apr 11 2011, 18:05:24) 
    Type "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.

    IPython 0.11.dev -- An enhanced Interactive Python.
    ?         -> Introduction and overview of IPython's features.
    %quickref -> Quick reference.
    help      -> Python's own help system.
    object?   -> Details about 'object', use 'object??' for extra details.

    In [1]: import numpy

    In [2]: numpy.linalg.solve(numpy.array([[1,2],[3,4]]), numpy.array([1,1]))
    Out[2]: array([-1.,  1.])

For those of you not well-versed in python, this is the MATLAB equivalent:

    octave:1> [1,2; 3,4]\[1,1]'
    ans =
    
      -1
       1

Obviously, MATLAB wins in terms of brevity for this example, since matrix maths are built-in. However, note how *easily* a matrix library was brought in with python! [numpy](http://numpy.org/) is installed globally on my machine, so python only has to look in the right modules folder to make the numpy module available.

Alternately, in [node.js](http://nodejs.org) with the commonjs require system:

    [josh@pidgey tmp]$ node
    > var underscore = require("underscore");
    > underscore.zip([1,2,3],[4,5,6])
    [ [ 1, 4 ],
      [ 2, 5 ],
      [ 3, 6 ] ]
    > 

with the MATLAB equivalent:

    octave:1> a = [1,2,3];
    octave:2> b = [4,5,6];
    octave:3> [a; b]'
    ans =

       1   4
       2   5
       3   6

    octave:4>

Again, MATLAB is more than capable of doing [zip](http://www.zvon.org/other/haskell/Outputprelude/zip_f.html)-like operations. However, is MATLAB capable of making a library like [underscore](http://documentcloud.github.com/underscore/) instantly available just by "asking for it" on the REPL?

As far as I know, the answer is, "only if you write a module system yourself." So, I did:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1289223.js?file=require.m"></script>

Its use looks like this:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1289223.js?file=log.log"></script>

You can see, then, that you can install modules just by putting your files in the right folder, and then gain access to them just by using this "require" library. Heck, you should even be able to require require:

    octave:1> require("./require")
    octave:2> cd ml_modules
    octave:3> require("./plusone")
    octave:4> plusone(3)
    ans =  4
    octave:5> 

In terms of being able to put all your modules in central locations, this is *great*. There is, however, one important thing that this isn't doing, and you can see the difference if you compare my MATLAB require function to the one from node.js:

    // node.js
    > var underscore = require("underscore");

    % MATLAB
    octave:3> require("./plusone")
    octave:4> plusone(3)

Basically, while the node.js require *returns* the module, the MATLAB require just evaluates the module in the global namespace. I'm personally a big fan of Node.js's require system, so I was bummed to find that returning the module and assigning it a variable would be "hard" in MATLAB. Still, I think require.m can be of use just in terms of code reuse and "installed libraries"! Y'know, if people use it. **WHICH YOU SHOULD IF YOU USE MATLAB.**

A final note for those that are good at MATLAB: There are a number of issues with require.m that a more regular MATLAB user could probably address:

    % Eval the "module"
    [status, src] = system([ "cat " path "/" file ".m" ]);
    eval(src);

First, I'm using "cat," a command line tool in linux, to read in the file because I couldn't find any generic "read in this text file" commands for MATLAB. My research indicated that all the text-reading functions were csv-specific, but I would **love** to be proven wrong.

Second, I'm using `eval()` to execute code. I think in this case `eval()` is actually the *right* thing to do since we want our modules to have full access to MATLAB's capabilities. I still can't shake the feeling, however, that there's a better way.

Are you a MATLAB hacker? Fork my gist, bro!

## Regexps in MATLAB, and a horrible strawman

One technique I considered for making require.m behave like I *really* wanted to was to use a regular expression to rename function definitions to "module" before evaluating the code. This way, I could return this globally-created "module" object. I decided it was more trouble (and magic) than it was worth, but not before finding *this* gem:

    <http://blogs.mathworks.com/loren/2006/04/05/regexp-how-tos/>

In this MathWorks blog article, the author outlines how regular expressions work in MATLAB. That'd be fine, except that the author makes this assertion:

> One of MATLAB's hidden strengths is its ability to handle text processing.

I'm going to call bullshit on this one. MATLAB's great for matrices and vectors, but when it comes to strings it's **terrible**. There's no way around this. [This video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1lBeungEnx4) which parodies MATLAB and the movie Metropolis, has a quote which sums up my thoughts on the matter nicely:

> I tried to parse a string and I think I killed 20 people!

This is seriously how bad MATLAB is with string manipulation.

Of course, the author can be entitled to his opinion that disagrees from mine---that's totally fine. However, the author continues to compare MATLAB to perl by writing these two snippets:

    # perl code
    while (<>) {
        foreach (split (/(\w+)/)) {
            if (m/\w/) {
                my @w = split (//);
                my $A = shift @w;
                my $Z = pop @w;
                print $A;
                if (defined ($Z)) {
                    my $i = $#w+1;
                    while ($i--) {
                        my $j = int rand ($i+1);
                        @w[$i,$j] = @w[$j,$i];
                    }
                    foreach (@w) {
                        print $_;
                    }
                    print $Z;
                }
            } else {
                print "$_";
            }
        }
    }

    % MATLAB v2006a+
    while true
        line = input('', 's');
        line = regexprep(line, '(?<=\w)\w{2,}(?=\w)', '${$0(randperm(length($0)))}');
        disp(line);
    end

For any of you somewhat familiar with perl's reputation for hacking string data, this example may seem suspicious. Of course, it is. After all, [SubStack](http://substack.net) wrote this in equivalent, but idiomatic, perl:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1290351.js?file=scramble.pl"></script>

As you can see, this is *even shorter* than the MATLAB example.

Not only that, but this isn't even really a particularly good example once you know what the code Actually Does:

    [josh@pidgey ~]$ perl -p -MList::Util=shuffle -e's{(?<=\w)(\w{2,})(?=\w)}{join "", shuffle split "", $1}egx'
    foo bar baz
    foo bar baz
    corrupted
    cporetrud
    tamper proof
    teampr porof
    A study at Harvard or some such showed that you should still totally be able to read this
    A sudty at Harrvad or some scuh soehwd taht you sholud slitl taollty be able to read tihs
    ^C
    [josh@pidgey ~]$ 

Basically, it just scrambles the center portions of every word. This is mildly interesting, sure, but I think a better example would've been, say, chopping up some kind of user input and finding the chunk of data one is actually interested in. Call me crazy.

## Why I Even Care

I used to use MATLAB a lot in school to do things like [my thesis](https://github.com/jesusabdullah/anisotropy), but since I left academia I've been mostly programming javascript. I also happen to *really like* javascript! In addition, for math-type stuff I tend to use python and numpy instead of octave or matlab. So, why did I bother writing a module system hack for MATLAB?

First of all, MATLAB does have some strengths, particularly when it comes to matrices. This is because of its matrix literal notation and because of its "canned" numerical methods. MATLAB has a lot of fail, but in its core it's a very nice domain-specific language for linear algebra.

Also, I know that lots of people are still using MATLAB today. Just because I "escaped" and/or "know better" doesn't mean that there aren't thousands of mathematicians, scientists and engineers still using this tool. They deserve better! That's why I try to "give back."

However well that goes.
