---
layout: post
title: 'tc39 And You'
---

So. A few days ago, I posted a mean tweet:

> Me, I give zero fucks about tc39, mostly because I don't think they give a fuck about us.

And, well, I got called on it. As it turns out, Internet Friend [Rick Waldron](https://github.com/rwaldron) is on [tc39](http://www.ecma-international.org/memento/TC39.htm) (oh yeah, whups). As you might expect, he didn't like hearing that.

In fact, I *do* owe Rick an apology, as well as pretty much everyone else on the committee. I mean, they're on a *committee* for crying out loud. The only thing worse than being saddled with Committee Membership, in my opinion, is attending regular Committee Meetings. I avoid meetings like the plague; I'll go to one if I'm required to as part of my job, or if my house is going to be demolished if I don't go, but really *that's about it*. I'd rather take a bath in a tub full of tarantulas then go to a meeting. Ugh.

So if these people are willing to do that, they really must give a fuck. Plus, I know Rick well enough to know he's a really passionate person in general. So there's that.

(Beyond that, I was reminded by my friends that, wait, we're trying not to be vindictive anymore. Yes.)

But hey, 140 characters right? I figure now is as a good a time as any to play Internet Pundit. In for a penny in for a pound! :v

So, even though I was obviously talking shit in that tweet, it does hint at a Real Problem, which is that there's a *perception* that tc39 isn't representing our best interests. But why? I've been thinking about this over the weekend, and surprise---I HAVE A FEW IDEAS.

## (1) **I** have an **OPINION**

People on the internet *love* espousing their Opinions on what Good Software means. I know I do. Even I, though, am pretty laid back as compared to some. The culture surrounding javascript tends to encourage the development of differing opinions within itself, in a way that you don't see with other environments. Observe:

### MY OPINIONS on JAVASCRIPT:

* 2 spaces 4 lyfe, Ryan said so
* BACK IN MY DAY WE HAD CALLBACKS AND WE LIKED IT
* God damn it why are we making the semantics of `this` even MORE complicated UUUGH, can't we at least also have thin arrow?

### SOMEONE ELSE'S (obviously shitty) OPINIONS:

* Tabs were invented for a reason
* Promises? [Welcome to 1976](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futures_and_promises), everyone else gets this why don't you??
* Fat arrow makes my inline functions hella terse and lets me avoid all those inline `.bind(this)` calls my coworkers keep bitching about. WIN.

So what's the problem? Well, when you have strong opinions, it's easy to forget that they're just YOUR opinions, and that not *everyone* shares them. When the committee makes a decision you don't like, it's all too easy to forget that you're just one individual out of many.

### (2) It's a committee

I am definitely *not* complaining about the fact that a committee exists here. But, holy cow is having a BDFL an advantage. Why? Because what the BDFL says, goes, and DEAL WITH IT. Good examples of this are python (PEPs are rubber-stamped by Guido, if you don't like it tough shit) and Go (Not to be outdone by pep8, go has a tool called `gofmt` that will reformat your code into the One True Way). Prescriptivism!

Or, Hell, look at early node.js development. Ryan was pretty much the undisputed BDFL for node.js, and his work set the tone for Idiomatic Node all the way up to the present. Then, once Ryan decided to move on, node retained the structure of having a central gatekeeper. Nobody bikesheds about the "node callback convention," because that's just how it IS.

Basically, by having a BDFL a project can avoid the problems caused by (1), because only the BDFL's opinion really matters.

javascript, on the other hand, is being developed by a community, meaning there are multiple people trying to hash things out, all with differing opinions (again, see (1)), and as a result suddenly Other Opinions matter. Hell, maybe even MY opinion matters.

### (3) The Client/Server Schism: Or, Node's Drum Is Off-Key

Despite the fact that everyone has their *own* opinions (remember (1)? XD), these opinions *do* tend to polarize along certain divisions. The biggest one is client-side js vs. server-side js (which these days basically means node).

Node has a bit of a monoculture. Recall that node was shaped by a line (3 people make a line, right?) of BDFLs. Between that and its tightly-knit community, noders tend to have similar opinions. In fact, if you write node, you probably agree with the opinions I espoused as my own! (probably.)

On the client, though? Shit's different. Remember how much complaining came from the node community when es6 modules were first spec'd? I was in the IRC room for node.js once, probably early 2011, when one of the people who worked Very Hard on the es6 module spec made the epic mistake of talking about it. Regrettably, I joined in with the group tearing-this-dude-a-new-asshole. I'm not proud of it. We were all SO CONVINCED that es6 modules were a Shitty Idea as compared to (ﾉ◕ヮ◕)ﾉ*:･ﾟ✧ node_modules (ಥ﹏ಥ) that we were, as a group, willing to crush someone's spirit over it.

And yet, now it's 2014, and we have people on the client SO ready for a real module system that they're [transpiling es6 modules to commonjs and friends](http://square.github.io/es6-module-transpiler/). It's a different world over there in mainstream browserland.

To bring this back home: If you thought forgetting that *your* opinion was just one of many, try forgetting that node idioms aren't actually accepted community-wide. If you spend most of your time on the backend, it's Really Easy.

### (4) OMG DRAMASCRIPT

Ah yes, the twitter hate machine. We're very good at pissing each other off, pushing each others buttons, and blowing interpersonal misunderstandings out of proportion. Me ruffling Rick's feathers? Nothing compared to the shitstorm that happened when Domenic Denicola was allegedly tone policed, or the shitstorm that happened when that es6 modules guy dropped into the node irc room, or the time `=>` passed inspection but `->` didn't, or any of the times we were reminded that promises were going to be a Thing.

This shouldn't be surprising, given everything else. Combine that with [John Gabriel's Greater Internet Fuckwad Theory](http://www.penny-arcade.com/comic/2004/03/19/) and "140 characters lol", and there you go.

In addition: Remember how shitty meetings are? Like Hell am I going to read the minutes. I even know where they are, and I still won't read them, because I hate procedure THAT much. But, apparently, I'll read someone's pissy tweet and assume it's a valid report of what's happening. I bet you've done it too. Naturally, this causes more ranting, and the further removed from The Minutes these rants are, the less they can be based on fact. Before we know it, we're yelling "DON'T TREAD ON ME" while dressed up like a shitty Paul Revere cosplay.

But there's one other aspect I want to touch: Just because we ARE jerks to each other, doesn't mean we like SEEING it. There are large groups of us that try to ignore it, push it under the rug, convince ourselves that if we ignore the strife it will go away. But dismissing these things as DRAMASCRIPT won't do any such thing. Sorry.

### So What Now?

*Self-reflection.* At least, that's what I've been doing the last year or so. I'm still learning. I have, however, become much more accepting of differing takes on what Good Javascript looks like, both at a library and language level. I've tried to have a nuanced, well-articulated take on these things.

But hey, we're all fallible.

Sorry Rick. Can I get a johnny-5 shirt off you sometime? :)

